team, the people we were visiting called in the
inspection team. But officially, it was a staff
assistance visit team. OK. Today is, what is it,
the 26th?
Didn't even look at the calendar, for heaven's
sakes. 23rd. OK, 23rd. This is the third interview
with General Cargill. We talked last time about
what he felt was the period in his career in which He
had the largest contribution to the service. And
now I'd like to turn it around and ask if there was a
period in your military career in which you felt
that you didn't have much of a contribution, or
maybe you could have done something, but you
couldn't, for some reason, get it through. You
couldn't be effective, maybe a shortcoming. I
would say that the time of least effectiveness for
me as far as being a reservist, and I think this is
probably true of most people in the program at that
time, was the period in which we had no equipment
and no real wartime mission, so to speak. The days
of what we called the Little Red Schoolhouse days.
That's when we would meet in the basement of the old
post office down in Bryan and watch old World War II
and pre-World War II films. would take
correspondence courses and work bills and so
forth. But as far as being prepared to go to war and
fulfill a specific wartime mission, we had none.
We had no preparation for that. About all we had to
offer was maybe some past active duty experience
and probably a little bit better than average
familiarization with world conditions, with our
military objectives and what have you. But not
much more than that. You take almost a man off the
street that was well read on current events would
probably have as much ability to perform a service
then as we had as reservists. But that that was when
I considered the program to be at rock bottom. And
then as I've mentioned in earlier conversations,
it got better and better and better until the day
Not only do we have wartime missions, but we have
brand new equipment in many cases right off the
assembly line to perform those wartime missions.
So it's gone from absolute depths to what I feel is
the best of all worlds. So from the 50s to the 80s.
That's pretty well the time frame. That's not to
say we have everything we need in the way of
equipment and funding, but I would say the things
that we need are in probably the approximate
proportions is the thing that the active duty
establishment needs. In other words, we're
getting our fair share of the assets from DOD.
What secretaries of defense do you think were most
responsible for this upgrading?
At that time, I was so far down on the totem pole that
I didn't even know who the secretary of defense was
for the most part. I do feel that Secretary of
Defense Robert McNamara had more to do with the
degradation of the military establishment than
any Secretary of Defense that pops in my mind. We
called him Mac the Knife because he was cutting
funds for this, cutting funds for that. We didn't
need this. We didn't need that. And during his
administration, the defense establishment
deteriorated drastically in this country. I
think our present Secretary of Defense, Casper
Weinberger, is just absolutely tops. Can't say
enough good things about him. He fights hard for
what we need. I would say that those would be the two
extremes. The rest of them would be a shady grade
between the two. Now let's talk about a couple of
those
weapon systems that have been very controversial
for the last few years. And I'd just like your
opinion on how you stand. What about the B-1
bomber? We should have had it years ago. However,
In the delay, there's always a silver lining to
every cloud, I guess. The fact that some
technological advances were made during the time
the B-1 was on hold and was being delayed so that the
B-1 we have, when it comes off the assembly line,
will be a better weapon system than the B-1 that
would have come off had Jimmy Carter and others not
postponed it. So there may be some blessings
involved there. But the B-52... Well, you can go to
Davis-Monthan, the boneyard of the Air Force
Base, and you'll see acres of B-52s. More going on
all the time. So we've not replaced those B-52s
that have worn out, and those that are still
flying, for the most part, are much older than any
of the crew members on board flying them. They were
built and were flying before any of those people
were born. And, you know, things change. You can
say, well, you can just patch an old car so long.
Well, if you keep spending the right kind of money
on it, you can keep it going indefinitely, I guess.
But there's no question in my mind that the B-1 is
overdue and desperately needed by this country.
OK, I was reading Jimmy Carter's memoirs, and in
that, in keeping faith, and in that, he says that he
decided to veto the B-1 because of the crew's
missile system. And we could drop the crews out of
the B-52. And so we could modify in that sense. And
he also says that the effectiveness of a bomber
trying to get into the Soviet Union would be almost
a suicide mission for any pilot. How would you
respond to that? Not being an operational type, I
really couldn't address those points at all. That
would really take someone involved in the flying
end of the thing. As I mentioned to you earlier, I'm
not a rated pilot. I've never done any flying. I've
never studied operational tactics. So I would
just have to comment generally that
since a manned bomber is the only A fail-safe
device we've got, once you send a manned bomber on a
mission, you can always recall it, but you can't
recall a missile once you push the button. I would
say that I would think our chances would be much
better in a B-1 than in a B-52 if we had to go to war.
And I think we owe it to our military people and to
our own country that we need to have the best odds
that we've got, even though they may not be good
odds, they'd still be the better odds than we have
with a B-52. I'm not so sure that Carter's
assumption that we can't make it to a target in a
manned bomber is a good assumption. Our planners
apparently think we can, or they wouldn't be
building it. Okay, I want to ask you about another
system, and that's the missiles, the MX missile.
I'd like your opinion on that. Should we deploy
them? I think a lot of it depends on the Russians. I
think a lot of it depends on the Pershing cruise
missiles, the Glickhams ground launch cruise
missiles and the Alchems air launch and different
things and what effect they have, if any, on the
talks in Geneva. I think there's still a remote
possibility that the MX, we may not have to deploy
the MX. The ALCOMs and the GLICOMs and so forth,
SLICOMs for sea launch. They've got all kinds of
acronyms. You've got to learn a whole new language
to talk to these people. But anyway, if those have
the effect that I think they might have, it may be
that we may be able to either delay or cut back on the
scope of the MX. I think we're always going to need
some long-range ballistic missile capability. I
think to answer the question, yes, we need the MX,
but I'm not sure we need it in the magnitude and in
the scope that probably has been envisioned. And
all that depends on what reaction we get from the
Russians on our cruise missiles. Okay. Speaking
of the Russians, I'd like your opinion on the SALT
talks, which, of course... Republican and
Democratic presidents supported until Mr.
Reagan and then he started the START talks. What
was your feeling on the SALT agreement? I felt you
could put the same amount of reliance on that as
well as on any other agreements we've ever signed
with Russia. And that is that they will honor it
only when it's to their advantage to do so. I don't
think it's worth the paper it's written on. That's
not to say I don't think it's worth the effort. I
think we need to continue the effort. I think we
need to reach all the agreements we can on
limiting. The verifiable portion of the thing is
extremely important. But as far as a treaty being
something we can say, hey, we've got a treaty, we
can sit back and relax now, I think that that's, you
know, even a man on the street that's not familiar
with the situation would know you can't do that. So
I think that, yes, we should pursue the treaty
talks. And yes, we should get the best deal we can.
We should get it in writing, get everybody's
agreement. And we should live up to our end of the
treaty and then see to it that they live up to their
end. But by the same token, if they don't, then we
need some fallback position. We need to assume
they're not going to honor the treaty. We need to
make that basic assumption. And it's a good
assumption. History's proven that. So that's my
feeling on that.
turn now to the role of leadership and the issue of
leadership at A&M. We pride ourselves on
developing leaders and therefore I'd like to ask
you, a leader both in the business and in the
military field, what are the qualities, what are
the values that make a good leader? I think first of
all you have to have average intelligence. I don't
I don't feel that it's necessary to have an
extremely high IQ. In fact, in some cases, that
might be a disadvantage. But I think an average
person with an average intelligence that's been
trained from early childhood in the importance of
self-reliance and the old Boy Scout law of all the
trustworthy, loyal, helpful, friendly,
courteous, kind, obedient, cheerful, thrifty,
brave, clean, reverent type things, all those are
You know, they may get to be almost rote, but still
each one of them individually is very important in
developing leadership. I think you have to
develop a pretty high degree of self-reliance,
and I think that's done only through experiencing
a certain amount of adversity. I think that if you
don't have hardships and trials and tribulations
that come along in smaller doses as you're young
and it gets larger and larger as you grow, If you're
shielded from those, either by parents, peers, or
what have you, it's much of a disservice. Because
in later life, when you are thrust in a leadership
position and you do find yourself in a position of
adversity, then you're not equipped to handle it.
But I feel that A&M does that. I think that the
student body, the discipline that we talked about
earlier in the core, by its very nature, imposes a
certain amount of uneasiness. It's the grain of
sand and the oyster that develops into a pearl.
It's an abrasive process. I think those are very
important. I think we have that here at A&M. I think
we try to develop that through giving people an
opportunity to run for student office. It's not a
pleasant thing to run for the student senate. It's
a lot of hard work, and you take a lot of knocks, but
it's a growing process. And those that adapt to it
and realize that that's part of the price they pay
for being a leader and are willing to pay that
price, well, then those things follow most of
their life. If you had to go back, I want to ask a
similar question now. If you had to go back to the
Corps and they wanted you to give them a lecture on
how to become a leader, what would you tell them? I
would tell them pretty well some of the things that
I just told you there, plus the fact that I would try
to emphasize to them to force themselves to accept
positions of responsibility or to do actions
which are responsible actions, even though it may
be uncomfortable at the time. They may not want to
go out on a fundraising drive for the Boy Scouts, or
they may not want to get involved with some of the
The civic service type of activities are
available to some of our students. But they need to
force themselves to do that, even though it would
be much more pleasant to get a six pack and go to the
river fishing with the guys. It's the old idea of
learn to do by doing. You learn to be a leader by
being a leader. And there are lots of
opportunities on this campus and in life in
general for people to place themselves in
leadership roles. We hear the expression all the
time in all kinds of meetings, do we have any
volunteers for this? Or would someone volunteer
to do this, that, or the other? Volunteer. Get
involved. Be part of it. Do something. And those
little experiences continue to grow, and they
develop a mindset that will follow you most of your
life. So I would advise them to get very active in
core activities, in student activities, and in
classroom activities. Join every club they can
find to join that they're eligible for. Run for
office. responsibility and then they'll be a
leader I was wondering if there's a difference
between a business leader or a university leader
or a military leader is there a difference in the
way that those two types of people lead you're in a
unique situation here so you should be yeah I think
that to answer your question, I don't think
there's a dime's worth of difference in
leadership in any of those. I think that it all goes
back to some very basic principles that a lot of
times we forget. Things that you learn in
management 101, the importance of unity of
command, having one boss, one guy that can make a
decision and then take the heat if it's necessary
for him to take it. Span of control, not having too
many people working for him. Homogeneous
assignment, getting people to giving people work
to do that's of a like nature so that you don't ask
him to do one thing and then the next minute you ask
him to do something that he's not really qualified
to do. Delegation of authority, I say, probably is
the most important thing that a leader needs to
develop in any of these arenas that you're talking
about, whether it be military, civic,
legislative, business, education, whatever. A
leader just does not have enough time during the
day to do all he needs to do. So you get your work done
through people. It comes down to what I like to
refer to as my very favorite definition of
management. How do you define management? Of
course, that's one of the things that you always
have in management classes. What is management?
To me, management is defining and solving
problems through the development and
utilization of personnel. If you do the job
yourself, You're not a manager. You do the job
through other people. And to me, those basic
things are true no matter what. Have you ever read
the book by former Brigadier General Douglas
Kennard entitled The War Managers? No. It deals
with Vietnam, and he did a survey of the 180
different generals who at one time were in
Vietnam, and about 110 or so filled out the survey
and sent it back to him. And he deals with this issue
of managing the army versus leading the army, and
he sees differences here. And of course, it could
be managing the Air Force versus leading. And he
feels that one of the main problems in Vietnam and
in the service is that so many people have MBAs, and
so many people are managers, and there aren't as
many true leaders. Let's just go out and we've got
to face the enemy now. How would you respond to
that? Well, I would think that, of course, a lot of
times, If you've got a crisis situation on your
hands, then I get involved. I get on the telephone.
I take care of things myself rather than delegate.
I would think that when you're in a combat
environment, it's very similar to me having a fire
in the basement of the student center. When they
call me up and tell me we've got a major fire in the
basement of the student center, I don't think
about delegating. I get on the phone. I carry a
bunch of phone numbers in my billfold of people I
need to contact to make things happen. I forget the
chain of command, and I take care of the business.
And I would think that's where you'd have to be in
combat. But those situations probably occupy 1
tenth of 1% of your time. The other 99.5% or
whatever, then you can be a manager as opposed to a
leader. I don't really differentiate that much
between managership and leadership. I think
they're almost synonymous terms.
So I would say that in a life-threatening or a
combat environment situation that that you'd
have to throw some of your 101 rules out the window
and do what the immediate situation called for,
whatever it may be. Now, maybe this is part of
military mythology, but we often see on
television and in the movies the military leader
as the patent type. let's kick him in the butt and
go, guys, that kind of stuff. I've never met but one
guy that kind of fits that pattern. He's retired,
and he retired under adverse conditions named
General Keegan. He used to be in charge of Air Force
Intelligence Service, and he made a number of
speeches and took a number of positions that were
counter to policy at that time, and so basically he
really got fired. Since then, he's been on a
speaking tour, and I presume still is, of Anybody
can get to listen to him about the Russian threat
and so forth. He was a hellfire and brimstone
patent type. I've never met any other general that
was like that. So that's a myth, I think, for the
most part. However, in a wartime situation, it may
take something like that. And it's always good to
have the ability to come unglued if you have to to
get something done. But you just don't want to use
it until it's really necessary. I think most of us
have a boiling point. Some of us is lower than
others and I think it should be a low point but I
think all of us should have the ability to ball if
the situation calls for it. Okay, let's turn to
General Rutter. Did you know General Rutter? I
knew him personally. Well, could you just
describe him, the type of person that he was and
your feelings toward him? He was all the things
that I've talked about is what I think a leader
should be. He was personable. He was friendly. He
was tough. He was fair. He could be nasty if the
situation really demanded it, but only if the
situation really demanded it. He liked people. He
liked folksy things. He liked to talk about some of
his background, some of his experiences. He liked
for things to be run on a business-like basis with
black ink at the bottom of the page instead of red
ink. He got a little bit more involved in some of the
details of the university operation than
probably he should have, but he did it not because
he felt that others couldn't do it. He did it
because he liked to do it. For example, when I was
promoted, when I was hired as manager of the Texas
A&M bookstore, I didn't get the offer until I
personally went over and sat down for about an hour
interview with General Rutter, and we talked. He
said, what makes you think you can run that
bookstore? And to me, it's a good job and a nice job
and a big job, but it's not one where the president
of the university would normally sit down with an
hour interview and personally pass on the guy
that's going to go in as the manager of the
bookstore. That would be done certainly no higher
than the vice presidential level and probably not
even at that level in today's environment. Of
course, at that time, the school was much smaller,
so that might have had some bearing. But he used to
really get involved in a lot of, personnel
actions, especially for jobs where people were
being hired to fill jobs, middle management and
above. You didn't hire anybody on this campus
without his personal blessings. And he wanted to
interview people most of the time. But I'm not
saying that that's a drawback. I'm just saying
that in today's environment, with the numbers of
people and the size of the university, you just
couldn't do that. No. Well, just out of curiosity,
what did you say to him? I said, you bet I can. I was
very positive, and I think that's one of the things
that got his attention. There was never any
vacillation or hesitation on my part. Could I run
the store? I'd, of course, been with Sears Roebuck
for eight years, so I'd had a good, solid
background in retail business and in a
profit-making type situation. He had a great deal
of respect for Sears, and I think my experience and
the way I came across in the interview,
apparently, was positive or I wouldn't have had
the job. But he used to go out and circulate on the
campus quite a bit. I know he came in to the
bookstore for briefings periodically on our
profit picture and how we were making things. And
that's pretty low level for the president to take
time to come out and sit down in the bookstore
manager's office and let the manager tell you how
things were going in the bookstore.
But he was a dynamic guy. He had tremendous
respect. And although I didn't know too much about
this side of General Rutter, I understand that he
probably had a better handle on how politics works
and the power maneuvers that you need to make in
Austin for budget purposes and so forth about as
well as anybody ever has. Of course, being a state
land commissioner for a long time, on the Austin
scene, he knew how Austin worked. He knew which
buttons to push to get the reaction that he wanted,
and he didn't hesitate to push them. And I'm not
saying that that's anything good, because we're a
political organization. entity, and we can't
ever forget that. You can paint a big state
university, any color you want to paint it, it's
still a political animal. And it thrives on
appropriations. And appropriations are driven
by politics, and politics is what he was a master
at. He really knew how to play it. And he was a
visionary. He had visions of this university
doing pretty well what it has done. This complex
we're in now was pretty well thought up and dreamed
up and put into motion during his administration.
And just a super guy. Very friendly. I always
thought the world of him. I have a very close
relationship with his widow, Mrs. Rutter. I see
her frequently.
But of course, during his administration,
probably the most dynamic changes took place with
the College of Texas A&M to the Texas A&M
University. And I'd like to ask your opinion on
some of these changes. What about as a former
corpsman watching the end of the mandatory corps?
How did you feel about that? I had mixed emotions.
My heart told me no, and my head told me yes. That no,
I hate to turn loose to the old ways of doing things.
That is A&M to me. The core and A&M were synonymous
terms at that time.
But logic would tell you that it had to happen. And
since it's happened, and since we've gotten used
to it, there's no question that it was the
appropriate thing to do. I think that three things
have happened. that have brought A&M to the
forefront. One is the name change that you've
already alluded to. Second is the elimination of
mandatory core. And third is the admission of
females to the university. That's the next
question. Without any one of those three things
having happened, we wouldn't be in the enviable
position we're in today.
So did you feel about the same way about women? I
would say, Rob, doing away with mandatory core and
admitting women, my feelings were exactly the
same. I knew it had to come. It was obvious that it
was coming. But I still hated to give up the old way
of doing things. But I think that's human nature.
You just inertia. You just hate to, you know, when
you're going down a certain path and you're
comfortable with it, no matter how strong the
evidence may be that you need to change, you hate to
change. And so I had, I can't say I had any problems
with it. It's just that there was a certain
nostalgia involved in seeing the, the thing
changed. But it changed so gradually that it
really wasn't bad. Now, it appeared to be gradual
to me because I was here on the scene. And I see a few
women this semester and a few more next semester
and a few more next semester. But to someone that
was out in the boondocks that maybe thought or had
contact with A&M say over two years, to him it was
almost an instant change. So it probably didn't
impact me as much as it did some of the guys out in the
business world that didn't have that much direct
contact with the university. But no question, it
was the appropriate thing to do. It was not done
lightly and at the whims of some one individual. It
was done after much study. And it
had to come. Do you remember, did General Rutter
ever tell you about heat that he was getting from
former students on this? Never told me directly,
but I understand from conversation around the
campus that he did take a tremendous amount of
heat.
That's, once again, where the mental
conditioning and toughening that I talked about
earlier. He had been in situations all of his life
in which he had to take criticism. So he was
equipped to handle criticism. Now, nobody ever
likes to be criticized, but you can handle it. And
if you've not been conditioned to handle it, then
you just cave in. You can't handle it. So he was
equipped to handle it. Some people say that only a
man of his stature could have brought these
changes abroad. What would you say about that? I
think probably these conditions would have come
about if we hadn't even had a president. It was just
inevitable that these things happened. I think
his presence and his personal popularity made the
transition much easier, especially with some of
our old die-hard former students. They had such
great respect for him that they would more or less
think, well, I don't like it, but if Earl's there
and he says let's do it, I'll go because of Earl, not
because I agree with him. But it might not have
happened quite as soon. It might not have happened
quite as smoothly. But all three of these things, I
think, were inevitable, whether Rudder had been
here or not. But I do think that his presence and his
support of them made the medicine go down a little
bit more easily. Now I'd like to ask about blacks
and allowing blacks into A&M. What was your
opinion on that? I don't think that there's my
personal opinion is that it really hadn't had an
adverse impact in any way whatsoever. I think that
the biggest problem we have is that we've not been
able to attract enough of them. Obviously, with
the affirmative action thrust that the
university has and has had since day one, not only
with blacks but with Hispanics and other minority
groups that we're trying to attract. Obviously,
we want to attract the best students possible
regardless of color, race, what have you. Other
universities are in competition with the bright
young students, whatever race. And we've just not
been successful in attracting the numbers of
blacks that I feel that we should have. But as far as
their impact on core life, on campus life, I think
it's been nothing but positive. I think when you
come to the university,
you look for a broadening experience. You look for
finding ways to broaden your own horizon. And the
way you do that is by rubbing up against the world.
And we're a little... microcosm, so to speak, of
the world here. We've got people from, well, not
every country in the world, obviously, but from a
lot of different countries. And by meeting and
being thrown with these people, they learn from
you, you learn from them. And you learn that
possibly your narrow viewpoint of life is not the
only one there is, and may not even be the best one
there is. So I feel that there's been a positive
influence And I'm all for it, and we need to do
everything we can to continue in that direction.
Why do you think we have not been able to attract as
many minority students as you would like to see? I
think it goes back to some of the traditional
discriminatory policies that have existed
primarily in the South over the past 20, 30 years,
which the school segregation And the quality of
high school graduates is reflected in SAT scores
and things of that type. The students coming up
through an all-black school system just weren't
equipped to be competitive. And it's a
competitive world we live in. You can pass all the
laws you want to, but it comes right down to
competition. And I feel that now that integration
is a fact of life in our elementary and secondary
school system that you're going to see more and
more people, more and more blacks that will be in a
position to be competitive than they have been in
the past. I think the reason A&M has not done better
is that and I don't think the black students want us
to do this. We've not chosen to lower our standards
just to attract a large number of black students.
We've maintained our standards and the numbers of
black students that can meet our standards are and
are small in number, and they're highly sought
after, not only from schools within the state, but
from schools outside the state. So the
competition for high school graduates with high
SAT scores that are black is unbelievable. And we
don't want just bodies. We want quality students,
whatever the color may be. And the present policy
is that we don't want to lower our standards in
order to attract X numbers of minority students.
We feel that now that the high school graduates,
black students, seem to be more competitive, that
in a matter of relatively short period of time,
that the balance, the percentage of students
today now will be pretty well in proportion to the
percentage of blacks that graduate from Texas
high schools, for example. So in other words, we
feel like we're getting our fair share. But it's
just that we need to, even though we might have a
right percentage of the pie, the pie needs to be
bigger. And that's the answer, really, is to
graduate more black and Hispanic students that
are competitive that we can accept. So does this go
back to improving high schools in Texas? Oh, yes.
And increasing integration? You bet. That's just
basic. And I think we've done a fairly good job of
that. It's just that you can't go from dead still to
wide open instantly. It takes time. Oh, sure. And
people are impatient with the passing of time. But
it passes whether you're impatient or not. So
we'll get there. And I would imagine that this is
the same reason that we have a difficult time
attracting minority faculty members. Same deal
exactly. Competition. We were talking about some
specific disciplines that we needed. I've
forgotten what it was, but it was a scientific, I
believe it was in the College of Medicine. They
were interested in getting a black faculty member
in a certain discipline. And it was determined at
that time there was only one black guy in the entire
state of Texas that practiced that particular
discipline. And he was working somewhere else. So
you've got to have a universe to draw from before
you've got a fighting chance. And the universe
just hasn't been there up until relatively recent
years. And that's a failure of our education
system, a past failure, which we're attempting to
remedy. And I think we are remedying that. But a
black student that entered the first grade with
white students that's integrated all the way,
then you should have every reason to assume that
when they graduate from high school that the black
students is going to be just as competitive as the
white students. Now, that's not so now because it
hadn't been that way from the first grade. The
pipeline's got to run a while before you get good
clear water coming out the end. And so it's
running, and we'll get there. But in the meantime,
we just got to do the best we can Be competitive. And
I think our summer school program is a wonderful
program in that we will let anyone in to our summer
school program regardless of class standing and
regardless of SAT scores. Yeah, that is a nice one.
And then if they hack it, some people just by sheer
guts can take a losing situation and turn it into a
winning situation because they want to bad
enough. And that program has been wonderful. Give
everybody a chance. We don't plan on changing
that, do we? Not to my knowledge. Of course, you're
talking in the academic area now, which is not my
area. So all I can give you is just man on the street
hearsay type answers to academic type questions.
Yeah, I think that's an outstanding program. Very
necessary program. Now, we've talked about
changes at A&M. We've talked about your military
career and your ideas of leadership and your
background. Is there something in this oral
biography that you think that I've left out that
you think that we should talk about? Basically,
I'm out of questions. Okay. Is there some aspect
that I didn't cover? Because you're the expert on
your life. I might just ramble a few minutes, if I
may. Fine. And tell you some of the things that are
important in my life. Okay, good. To me, I try to, as
best I can, and I realize that it's not possible to
do this, but I try to compartmentalize my life.
Mm-hmm. in the time compartments. When I go home,
and I usually go home pretty close to 5 o'clock,
5.15, 5.30 or so, unless there's something
pushing me, I try to forget what's at work, and then
I concentrate on things that I do at home. I'm a big
time scheduler. I've got a time to do this and a time
to do that. And I stick to it usually pretty well.
Now, that's not to say it shouldn't be so
inflexible that you can't change it to do things
that need to be done. But I feel that a real, strong,
happy family life at home is essential to a mental
attitude which keeps you healthy and ready to go
and do the jobs that need to be done during working
hours.
So I feel that a strong home life's important. I
feel that some attention Not overboard now. I want
to emphasize not overboard, but some attention to
a religious side of life is important.
Which we talked about a lot earlier. Yes.
Regardless of what your religious beliefs may be,
you need to have something other
than just material and worldly things that you can
dwell on. Now, religion, to some people, may take
the forms of doing good works or being active in the
United Fund, other people that may be worshiping a
supreme being as they envision the supreme being.
But whatever form your spiritual, that might be a
better word, spiritual rather than religious,
scrub religious and concentrate on spiritual.
You need some religious outlet to realize that
there is a spiritual side of man. Now, whatever
thrust that takes is up to the individual. But
there is a spiritual something there closely akin
to emotion. And feelings. How do you show someone
feelings? You can't show someone... It's
something that... It's not monetary. It's not
monetary. It's not physical. It has no mass. But
it's very real. There's no one that would argue
that there's not such a thing as emotion. Because
we all have them. But I think you need to spend some
time but not go overboard on the spiritual aspect
of life.
I believe, although I don't practice it, that a
strong program of physical fitness is important.
And every day that I get up, I say, boy, today's
going to be the day when I really get with my
physical fitness program. And on those rare days
when I do go to the pool or whatever, I feel so much
better, and I think, well, I ought to do this every
day as good as I feel, but I don't do it. So I think
that's important. I think spending a lot of time
just talking with your spouse is important. My
wife is a working wife. She's, I don't know if you
want to get into family members and so forth, but we
married at a, very early age my wife tells our
friends that she was nine when we married but she
was really 17 which by the day standards quite
young back when i married that that was more of the
pattern that you got married younger now it seems
to be that you're married marrying in later years
but and i was 20. married between my junior and
senior year now after i graduated went into the
active duty in the air force you know as we talked
about earlier but any event To help keep the family
finances afloat, she worked as a secretary
primarily for years. And then when I came back here
to A&M and settled down, well, she went to work as a
secretary at what was then Bank of A&M, secretary
to the president, Dennis Gearing. Dennis is still
in this part of the country, by the way, doing
industrial development work. But anyway, that
was almost 18 years ago. through hard work and
being in the right place at the right time. She has
been promoted up the line until she's now
secretary to the board of directors and is vice
president for marketing and business
development. So the number of people working for
her in a very, very responsible job, an
interesting job. She's a very pretty lady and very
proud of her, both for her accomplishments and for
being the kind of person that she is. We've been
married a little over 30 years now. So we had an
extremely fine marriage, just absolutely
perfect. But when we come here from work, I usually
get off a little earlier than she does. So I go to the
grocery store, pick up what groceries we need to
get, and I go to the cleaners and do a lot of the
errands. So when she gets off work, she goes
straight home. We'll sit down and spend 15, 20
minutes, sometimes 30, doing nothing but just
talking about how did they go and talking about the
kids and making plans and just a time together. I
think that's very important. You need to spend
time talking to the kids. I don't even know if I've
got the title right, but there was a ballad that
came out several years back, and I believe it was
called A Cat in the Cradle. Are you familiar with
the words to that ballad? To me, those are so
meaningful. It's a story about this father that
never could find time for his son. The son wanted to
play ball, and the dad says, maybe later I've got to
do this or that. And then later on... The song goes
on. The man gets old. And his son grows up and goes to
college. And the son comes in and says, the dad
says, well, son, can we sit down and visit a few
minutes? He said, maybe later, dad. I just want to
borrow the keys to the car. In other words, the worm
has turned. Then the son has no time for the father.
And I think it's really important when you have
children to spend some time with them and teach
them some of your values so that at least they may
not accept them, but at least they know what you
feel is important in life. So to me, to have a rich,
well-rounded life, that's very important that
you spend quality time with the family.
I feel
that you should have something to look forward to
at all times. You should have a plan of things that
you want to do at certain phases of your life. For
example, now that I've been with A&M a number of
years, and I'll be 52 years old on my next birthday,
I'm making some real definite plans for my
retirement years. I plan on retiring from A&M.
Well, the ideal time for me would be on my 60th
birthday. I would draw the full retirement, which
would be an adequate retirement to live on. My Air
Force retirement pay would start at that time. But
I still feel that 60, assuming you're in good
health, is way too early to go sit in a rocking
chair. Yeah. I don't know just what I'm going to do
yet, but I'm spending a lot of time on thinking I
have an intense interest in the stock market. I may
want to try to become an account executive or
something like that. Supposedly, in today's
environment, 60 is not too old to start into a
program like that. You mentioned my interest in
books on the stock market. This gives you a chance
to do things you've always wanted to do but just
never really were able to do. So I think planning
ahead and having something to dream about is very
important. What do you see as your future here at
A&M now that you're a vice president? I'm in an
enviable position that most people never reach,
and that is that I'm in the job that I want to keep for
the rest of my working life. This, in my opinion,
that's true. And it's a very calming, relaxing
position. And that doesn't mean that I don't have
day-to-day problems. But I don't have to worry
about being in competition with Tom Jones or Joe
Blow for the next promotion, because there is no
more promotion for me. This is the top of my field.
This is as high as it's possible for me to go in my
chosen area. And of course, I work for the
president. Well, obviously, the president's
always going to be a PhD type with a lot of academic
credentials and teaching. And that's not of
interest to me. So I have reached the highest goal
that it's possible for me to reach at Texas A&M. In
the Air Force Reserve, there's only one more rank
that it's possible for me to achieve, and I'd like
to do that. Your second star. My second star,
because that's the highest rank a reserve officer
can hold in the Air Force Reserve. I'm not going to
be at all disappointed if I don't make it, but I'd be
very happy if I did make it. What do you think your
chances are, and would you explain how your job
would change them? for that second star? I'll be
real honest with you and tell you that my chances
for a second star are very slim. Sure. For
basically one reason, and that is that I'm not a
rated officer. By that I mean I don't fly. I'm not a
pilot or a navigator. Many, many, many of your
reserve jobs require that as a prerequisite. In
other words, the mobilization assistant to all of
your flying major air commands, for example, SAC,
TAC.